# Visiting Japan top tips


## Things to keep in mind when planning japan
- Get a mobile pocket wifi it is easier to deal with than a Sim card. But check before you go what the limits are on the provider you use as some have small limits a day (like 1gb) and then switch you to small band 56k speed connections if you go over. I used wifi buddy and was pretty happy with it. Bring a power bank if you have one as both your phone and wifi might need a charge during the day with heavy use.
- The Jr rail pass is great if you want to travel all over using the high speed trains shinkanzen. You don't have to worry about tickets just get on and sit down in the non reserved area. Some lines are not officially included in the pass but nobody seems to check it so we just boarded with no issue. The rail pass includes all Jr lines and some ferries. So book as much travel as you can in the week(s) you have your pass to get the most out of it.
- For all the travel you can do with the Jr pass, or if your Jr pass has run out, get a suica or pasmo card at the airport. The machines are just everywhere but there are attendance to help you in your way if you need it. This will save you the hassle of buying tickets everywhere. It's kind of like the oyster card in London but it works almost everywhere in Japan. You can even buy drinks with it. Be sure to check your balance when exiting a station to make sure you have enough money for your journey. At the end of your journey you can just return it at the airport and get the money that is left on it back. There is a deposit to get your card but you get that back as well when you return it.
- Google maps is great for navigating the complex maze of subway and railway. You can find what lines to take to your destination pretty easily. But Google maps is blind in some areas and sometimes expects you to make connections that if you have no idea where you are or where to go you'll never make. Mostly just look at the line names and departure times and don't rely too much on the for and to locations as they often don't match what you read in the station and when in doubt just ask an attendant they are always around. It also does not have an option to prefer Jr stations to help get more out of your Jr rail pass so you sometimes have to use  Jr stations (if you know them) as your starting location instead of your current location to force Google to use Jr lines. Outside of the bigger cities maps gets progressively shittier.
- If you are traveling with heavy bags (would still recommend this with light travel gear) never book anything for less than two nights. The traveling will kill you otherwise. you will always have less time to explore what you want than you think you will due to travel time.
- Use a base of operations. For instance with public transport being so good in Japan you can easily get from osaka to Kobe in and hour, so just stay in osaka and plan a day trip to Kobe from there, that way you don't have to worry about your bags and you have a sort of good to be home feeling when you get back to the place you're staying. Just check Google maps how long travel time would be and you can see what cities you could day trip to. Ex: stay in osaka daytrip to Kobe, nara, himeji, Kyoto, Sakai, etc. This gives you the added benefit of looking what the weather is like on that day and then switching up the plans if needed.
- If you are going in the busy season it is recommended to book hotels or bnb's ahead of time. Outside of the busy season you can leave it a bit later and maybe even get some good last minute deals.
- Check if your hotel or bnb has good access to public transport to what you want to visit before booking it. Sometimes on the map it looks like two destinations are really close together but take 2-3 hours on a bus to get there. Also check if the hotel you're booking is the one you think it is,in some regions the same chain might have multiple hotels that all have very similar names.
- Plan for what you like. I spend 2 days in kyoto looking at temples and museums and that was definitely enough for me for a while. After that I was glad I planned a nature day in a park to diversify a little.
- Onsen are public baths that are part of Japan. Great place to go if your muscles are hurting from the traveling. *They are separated for men and women and swimwear is not allowed*. Enter your side, strip, sit down at a shower and thoroughly wash yourself, rinse and throw some warm buckets of water over all parts of your body. When you're nice and clean climb into the pool and just soak for a while until you're relaxed and on the verge of getting too hot (10-15 min usually but feel it out).
`* there are exceptions to these but you'll have to look for them.`
- Learn some basic things in Japanese saying thank you and please goes a long way. <Insert link to YouTube> In the bigger cities english speaking people are more prevalent but once outside them there are a lot less even in the hotels. Google translate can help here and there for very rough communication just keep your sentences short and to the point.
- Nagoya is boring, but your experience may vary.